# DentalCariesDetection
This project aims at dental caries classification. The target is to develop a CNN model with a specific architecture, which is then trained on a set of dental radiographies. This dataset contains radiographies related to 10 different dental conditions, including caries, implant and etc. We want our model to first capture the key characteristics and underlying features of our dataset and then classify the given inputs and assign each to one of the 10 classes with relatively high accuracy. 
The dataset we've chosen to use is a public dataset which can be accessed in kaggle. This dataset consists of three groups of radiography images: train,validation,test.
Note: validation images are used during the training process for continuosly testing the performance of our model. This can help with preventing probable issues related to training, like underfit and overfitting the model and can help us with matters like earlystopping.
The first major part of the project is data pre-processing, which includes applying some transformations on images for convenience. Next, I'm planning on using data augmentation for enhancing the performance of our model and for more robustness against noisy data. 
Our data pre-processing is quite simple with only resizing images to 224*224 pixels and then normalizing all pixels. Data Augmentation is frequently used in many projects, especially when dealing with a cnn model. It can be achieved by modifying our images in certain ways, such as rotation, gaussian filters, adding a little bit of noise and so on. However, in this project we're going to sum up this stage by rotation and horizontal flip.
